+++
date = "2024-01-25"
title = "Korea: The Impossible Country"
description = "Book review"
tags = ["books"]
+++

### A short review on Korea: The Impossible Country

This book by Daniel Tudor describes South Korea's transition from what was called a wasteland to the 12th largest economy within a span of 50 years. It is an inspiring story of the hardships, discipline and determination embodied by the citizens of South Korea that enabled this transformation. 

The book starts with a brief history and the evolution of ideologies in the Korean society since the Joseon period (1392 - 1897). It covers Shamanism, Buddism, Confucianism, Christianity, Capitalism, and Democracy. South Korea has been of interest to a bunch of imperial powers including China, Japan, Russia and finally the United States. Having such a big foreign intervention left the country impoverished. Ideologies often push your mental prowess as it lets you find some ultimate goal / truth that is often bigger than your own existence. Shamanism gave them hope in despair, Buddism provided them with wisdon, Confucianism gave the society a structure and discipline, Capitalism accelerated their economic growth and Democracy gave them freedom. Things weren't bright and shine, each ideology was accompanied by a set of drawbacks that the people had to find their way through. 

Shamanism in Korea is mainly experienced through the act of Musok in Korea. It is a set of superstitious (or not) practices that bridges the gap between spirits and human beings. People resorted to communication with the spirit world in order to solve their problems. It could be seen as rather archaic, but one would be surprised by how common the practices are, even in this day and age. Next came Buddhism, that originated in India and traveled to Korea through China. It was first adopted by the royal family while the common people followed shamanism. It saw its decline with corruption when Monastries were becoming powerful through tax exemption and special privileges for monks. What came to replace Buddhism was Neo-Confucianism, another moral philosophy system that started in China. It is not a religion, but a set of ethical codes that focus on treating others well, showing respect and loyality to others, and respecting elders. This set of moral guidelines helped with building a society of rule-abiding citizens. It is interesting to see how these doctrines influenced the every day life of people. 
Today Christianity is the most popular region in Korea. Unlike their Asian counterparts, Christianity did not come into Korea through missionaries, but rather by Korean natives who were inspired by the religion while visiting other countries who brought it back to Korea and preached to others. Coming from India, a land of multi-culture and multi-regions, learning how different religious beliefs cohabitated in this small country was a delight to read.

Democracy: How did South Korea transitioned from a military dictatorship to being one of the most democratic countries in Asia? It took decades of social reforms by ordinary human beings who lived extra-ordinary lives to build a democratic society. A pivotal move in improving the literacy rate in Korea was the introduction of Hangul - the Korean alphabets. Before that, people relied on Chinese alphabets that made literacy to be a privilege that only the elite enjoyed. Corruption is a societal peril that ate into the livelihoods of poor continuously in Korea. The peasant revolution of 1894, resulted in China and Japan incursion in the soceity, that led to the first Sino-Japanese war of 1894 - 1895. The rebels faced a disastrous defeat, but the reforms that followed removed the class system in Korea and created a meritocratic system for appointing government officials. Korea saw an internal division with the defeat of Imperial Japan in 1945 - the North was pro-Societ Union, while the South was pro-US. Under the US military administration, a democratic system was created in the South in 1948. Things were not smooth after this, there were a series of corrupt leaders who were quasi-dictators. It was around the late 90's that Korea found its way to a stable democracy, which to date is not free of corruption.

Capitalism in Korea: Protectionism has helped some of the chaebols (business moghuls) in South Korea thrive post-war. Companies like Samsung, LG, Hyundai etc has found their growth and success accelerated with a supportive goverment. Besides supportive state laws, a society constituted of industrial soldiers who had confucianistic principles imbibed in them, who were taught to be loyal to their employer and treat them with respect played a big role in building these corporations. This is where you see a stark contrast with the western companies. Korea does not celebrate individualism, but rather people work as a team towards a common goal. 

Pop-culture in Korea: The society also creates amazing art & artists and have been accepted by the world through K-Pop, K-movies, K-drama and their amazing food. Khmichi, Gochujang, bimbibap or kimbap are all enjoyed by people around the globe. Koreans also know to party hard, despite working for 6 days a week, they have a vibrant night life and are known to drink more than even the Irish. Local soju and high-end whiskies are enjoyed equally by the Korean nationals. 

The book was dense and full of insights about the country. It left me with a longing to visit this country at some point of life.